# hubot

hubot is a chat bot built on the [Hubot][hubot] framework. It was
initially generated by [generator-hubot][generator-hubot], and configured to be
deployed on [Heroku][heroku] to get you up and running as quick as possible.

This README is intended to help get you started. Definitely update and improve
to talk about your own instance, how to use and deploy, what functionality is
available, etc!

[hubot]: http://hubot.github.com
[generator-hubot]: https://github.com/github/generator-hubot

### Running hubot Locally

You can test your hubot by running the following, however some plugins will not
behave as expected unless the [environment variables](#configuration) they rely
upon have been set.

You can start nubot locally by running:

    % bin/hubot

You'll see some start up output and a prompt:

    [Sat Feb 28 2015 12:38:27 GMT+0000 (GMT)] INFO Using default redis on localhost:6379
    hubot>

Then you can interact with hubot by typing `hubot help`.

    hubot> hubot help
    hubot animate me <query> - The same thing as `image me`, except adds [snip]
    hubot help - Displays all of the help commands that hubot knows about.
    ...

### Scripting

An example script is included at `scripts/example.coffee`, so check it out to
get started, along with the [Scripting Guide][scripting-docs].

For many common tasks, there's a good chance someone has already one to do just
the thing.

[scripting-docs]: https://github.com/github/hubot/blob/master/docs/scripting.md

### external-scripts

There will inevitably be functionality that everyone will want. Instead of
writing it yourself, you can use existing plugins.

Hubot is able to load plugins from third-party `npm` packages. This is the
recommended way to add functionality to your hubot. You can get a list of
available hubot plugins on [npmjs.com][npmjs] or by using `npm search`:

    % npm search hubot-scripts panda
    NAME             DESCRIPTION                        AUTHOR DATE       VERSION KEYWORDS
    hubot-pandapanda a hubot script for panda responses =missu 2014-11-30 0.9.2   hubot hubot-scripts panda
    ...


To use a package, check the package's documentation, but in general it is:

1. Use `npm install --save` to add the package to `package.json` and install it
2. Add the package name to `external-scripts.json` as a double quoted string

You can review `external-scripts.json` to see what is included by default.

##### Advanced Usage

It is also possible to define `external-scripts.json` as an object to
explicitly specify which scripts from a package should be included. The example
below, for example, will only activate two of the six available scripts inside
the `hubot-fun` plugin, but all four of those in `hubot-auto-deploy`.

```json
{
  "hubot-fun": [
    "crazy",
    "thanks"
  ],
  "hubot-auto-deploy": "*"
}
```

**Be aware that not all plugins support this usage and will typically fallback
to including all scripts.**

[npmjs]: https://www.npmjs.com


### Rocket.chat

This hubot uses Rocketchat adapter to interact with users.
Configure your Rocketchat user ( bot ) in launch.sh or in rocketbot-mqtt.json


### MQTT Client

Client configuration takes place inside init files. 

For just plaintext you'll want the following in your environmnet, and to block comment out the options involving SSL

	export HUBOT_MQTT_URL='mqtts://test.mosquitto.org'
	export HUBOT_MQTT_PORT='1883'

For TLS against the mqtt server:

	export HUBOT_MQTT_HOST='test.mosquitto.org'
	export HUBOT_MQTT_URL='mqtt://test.mosquitto.org'
	export HUBOT_MQTT_PORT='8883'
	export HUBOT_MQTT_CA_CERT='/etc/ssl/certs/mosquitto.org.crt'

For a custom mosquitto server with client cert authentication you'll want (and obviously change them to your mqtt server)

	export HUBOT_MQTT_HOST='mqtt.hq.thebikeshed.io'
	export HUBOT_MQTT_URL='mqtts://mqtt.hq.thebikeshed.io'
	export HUBOT_MQTT_PORT='8883'
	export HUBOT_MQTT_CA_CERT='/etc/ssl/certs/ca.crt'
	export HUBOT_MQTT_CLIENT_KEY='/etc/ssl/private/localhost.ckey'
	export HUBOT_MQTT_CLIENT_CERT='/etc/ssl/certs/localhost.crt'

### Deploy

Start with rocketbot-mqtt.json.sample to configure your instance of rocketbot and save the file as rocketbot-mqtt.json
Then init with : 
	pm2 start rocketbot-mqtt.json
